[Device capabilities] [Location][1553134] (#2813)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/concepts/device-capabilities/location-capability.md

---
title: Integrate location capability
description: How to use Teams JavaScript client SDK to leverage location capability

> keywords: camera media qr code qrcode bar code barcode scanner scan capabilities native device permissions location

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keywords: location map capabilities native device permissions
```

ms.author: lajanuar
---

# Integrate location capability 

This document guides you on how to integrate the **location** capability of native device with your Teams app.  

> You can use [Microsoft Teams JavaScript client SDK](/javascript/api/overview/msteams-client?view=msteams-client-js-latest&preserve-view=true), which provides the tools necessary for your app to access the user’s [native device capabilities](native-device-permissions.md). Use the location APIs, such as [getLocation](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/location?view=msteams-client-js-latest#getLocation_LocationProps___error__SdkError__location__Location_____void_) and [showLocation](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/location?view=msteams-client-js-latest#showLocation) to integrate the capability within your app. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [Microsoft Teams JavaScript client SDK](/javascript/api/overview/msteams-client?view=msteams-client-js-latest&preserve-view=true), which provides the tools necessary for your app to access the user’s [native device capabilities](native-device-permissions.md). Use the location APIs, such as [getLocation](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/location?view=msteams-client-js-latest#getLocation_LocationProps___error__SdkError__location__Location_____void_) and [showLocation](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/location?view=msteams-client-js-latest#showLocation_Location___error__SdkError__status__boolean_____void_) to integrate the capability within your app. 
```

## Advantages of integrating location capability

* The integration allows web app developers on Teams platform to leverage location functionality with Microsoft Teams JavaScript client SDK. 

Following examples show how the integration of **location** capability is used in different scenarios:

>  * In a factory, the supervisor can track the attendance of workers by asking them to take a selfie in the vicinity of the factory and share it through the specified app. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * In a factory, the supervisor can track the attendance of workers by asking them to take a selfie in the vicinity of the factory and share it through the specified app.  The location data also gets captured and sent along with the image.
```

> * The **location** capability enables the maintenance staff of a service provider to share authentic health data of cellular towers with the management. The management can track any mismatch of captured location information with actual data through a custom-built app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The **location** capability enables the maintenance staff of a service provider to share authentic health data of cellular towers with the management. The management can compare any mismatch between captured location information and the data submitted by maintenance staff.
```

## Update manifest

Update your Teams app [manifest.json](../../resources/schema/manifest-schema.md#devicepermissions) file by adding the `devicePermissions` property and specifying `geolocation`. It allows your app to ask for requisite permissions from users before they start using the location capability.

``` json
"devicePermissions": [
    "geolocation",
],
```

> [!NOTE]
> The **Request Permissions** prompt is automatically displayed when a relevant Teams API is initiated. For more information, see [request device permissions](native-device-permissions.md).

## Location capability APIs

You must use the following set of APIs to enable your device's location capability:

| API      | Description   |
| --- | --- |
|[getLocation](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/location?view=msteams-client-js-latest#getLocation_LocationProps___error__SdkError__location__Location_____void_) | Gives user’s current device location or opens native location picker and returns the location chosen by the user. |
|[showLocation](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/location?view=msteams-client-js-latest#showLocation) | Shows location on map |

> [!NOTE]

> > The user location is displayed based on the value of location properties, `allowChooseLocation` and `showMap`. <br/> If the value of `allowChooseLocation` is *true*, then the users can choose any location of their choice.<br/>  If the value is *false*, then the users cannot change their current location.<br/> If the value of `showMap` is *true*, the map displays the current location of the user. <br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In getLocation() API comes along with following [input configurations](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/locationprops?view=msteams-client-js-latest), `allowChooseLocation` and `showMap`. <br/> If the value of `allowChooseLocation` is *true*, then the users can choose any location of their choice.<br/>  If the value is *false*, then the users cannot change their current location.<br/> If the value of `showMap` is *false*, the current location is fetched without displaying the map. `showMap` is ignored if `allowChooseLocation` is set to *true*.<br/>
```

> > If the value of `allowChooseLocation` is *false*, the default value of `showMap` is also *false*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
